# CONTRIBUTING

# Git / Github

If you would like to contribute to pycatia there are a number of ways you can do
this. 

If you contribution is to the codebase you should learn the basics of git / 
github and how to create a fork of pycatia and then a new branch for your 
specific pull request and creating the pull request itself. This can be done 
via the github web interface itself and this is fine too but it's worth 
learning git I think.

With your pull request please also submit a small section of code that 
demonstrates how to use the class method you have added / fixed.

## Adding new modules

If you would like to add a module to pycatia please see the contents of 
`v5automation-autogenerated.7z`. This archive was created by scraping through 
the contents of the V5Automation.chm help file to re-construct all the classes 
and methods for python. It's largely complete but won't work out the box 
without some tweaking. But these files should be the basis for any pull 
requests. They will save you sometime and effort and ensure some consistency 
for the project.

## Scripts / Examples

New scripts / examples are always welcome as they great for new users to 
discover how to use pycatia.

If you have written a script using pycatia you would like to share you can:

* email me your script: evereux@gmail.com
* submit a pull request - add the example to the existing examples.
* raise an issue

## Tests

There is a test framework in place that covers the basic set of pycatia 
features. However, there is a lot of work to do here in expanding on those. 
Pull-requests expanding on these tests would be very much appreciated.

